{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 6.2.9200}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\ul\f0\fs56\lang9 BASIC STRUCTURE OF COMPUTER \par
\ulnone\f1\fs28 A Computer Consists Of Five Functionally Independent main parts \par
1.INPUT.\par
2.MEMORY.\par
3.ARITHMETIC LOGIC.\par
4.OUTPUT.\par
5.CONTROL UNIT.\par
1\ul .INPUT\ulnone :- The Input Unit Converts The External World Data Into Binary Format Which Can Be Understood By The Cpu.\par
Eg:-Keyboard,Mouse,Joystick,etc.\par
2.\ul OUTPUT\ulnone :- a. The Output Unit Is The Counterpart Of The Input Unit.\par
b.Its Function Is To Send Processed Result To The Outside World .\par
c. A Familiar Example Of Such a Device Is a Printer.\par
3\ul .PROCESSOR\ulnone :- a.This Is The Brain Of The Machine.\par
b.It Is Responsible For Carrying Out The Computational Tasks.\par
c.Processor Divides The Operations Into Basic Steps.\par
d.Each Basic Steps Is Executed In One Clock Cycle.\par
e.Control Unit Works With a Reference Signal Called Processor Work.\par
4.\ul MEMORY:- \ulnone The Memory Stores Data,Result And Program.\par
There Are Two Classes Of Storage\par
a.Primary Memory.\par
b.Secondary Memory.\par
a.\ul PRIMARY MEMORY\ulnone :- i.Primary Memory Is Also Called Main Memory.\par
ii.In Primary Memory\par
ROM-Read Only Memory.(non-volatile)\par
RAM-Random Access Memory .(volatile)\par
b.\ul SECONDARY MEMEORY\ulnone :-Secondary Memory Is Used For Bulk Storage Of Data Non Volatile.\par
\ul\fs44 BASIC DIAGRAMIC REPRESENTATION OF A COMPUTER\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\ulnone\fs28 The Direction of arrow describes the data flow between the different parts of the system.\par
for eg:-  5 + 2=7\par
+ is called assignment operator & 5,2 are called operands.\par
The operators which works on two operand is called binary operators.\par
\ul\fs44 BASIC OPERATIONAL CONCEPTS\par
\ulnone\fs28 For an example for instructions (assembly language)\par
Load R2,LOC-"(Location)\par
a.This instruction reads the contents of a memory location whose address is represented symbolically by the label LOC and loads them into processor register R2.\par
b.Execution of this instruction requires several steps.\par
c.First the instruction is fetched from the memory into the processor.\par
d.Next the operator to be perfomed is determined by the control unit.\par
e.The operand at LOC is then fetched from the memory into the processor.\par
f.Finally the operand is stored in register R2.\par
\ul\fs44 CONNECTION BETWEEN THE PROCESSOR AND THE MAIN MEMORY \par
\fs28\line\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\ulnone Multiple registers are needed to facilitate the operation of the cpu.\par
\ul MAR\ulnone :-Memory Address Registers.\par
\ul MDR\ulnone :-Memory Data Registers .\par
\ul IR\ulnone :-Instruction registers.\par
\ul PC\ulnone :-Program Counter.\par
\ul RO-RN-1\ulnone :-General Purpose Register.\par
\ul ALU\ulnone :-Arithmetic & Logic Unit.\par
\fs44\par
\ul BUSES\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\fs28\par
\ulnone Buses are used for communication between different parts of the computer.\par
a.The different part of the computer need to communicate with each other.\par
b.The set of electrical lines that connect all the parts of a computer are called buses.\par
c.There are three types of buses\par
i.ADDRESS BUSES \par
ii.DATA BUSES \par
iii.CONTROL BUSES\par
i.\ul ADDRESS BUS\ulnone :-\par
Eg:-A 2 line bus can access depicted by\par
         0  0\par
         0  1\par
         1  0\par
         1   1\par
A 2 line address bus allows 2  = 4 address \par
Eg:-A 3 line bus can access 8 location depicted by \par
      0  0  0\par
      0  0  1\par
      0  1  0\par
      0  1  1\par
      1  0  0\par
      1  0  1\par
      1  1  0\par
      1  1  1\par
A 3 line address bus allow 2  = 8 address.\par
ii. \ul DATA BUS\ulnone :-  a.This is the bus used to transfer the actual data to and from the locations.\par
b.It's a two way bus as data may be going to the processor (read) or coming from the processor (write).\par
iii.\ul CONTROL UNIT\ulnone :- The control bus is a collection of lines each with a different operating at a different time.\par
There are five kinds of lines on the control bus\par
 a.Read Line:-The process or activate this line to show it wants to be sent data to be reads from another part of the computer system.\par
b.Write Line :-The processor activates this line to show it wants to write data to another part of the computer system.\par
c.Clock Line:-1.This line sends a regular series of pulses (measured in hertz).\par
\ul 2.\ulnone It controls the speed and timing of all operations in the computer.\par
d.Reset Line:-This line resets the registers inside the processor preparing it for carrying out a network.\par
e.Interrupt Line:- 1.A device sends a signal on this line to interrupt the processor when they need attention .(eg :- a printer out of paper ).\par
\ul 2. \ulnone The processsor uses the 3 buses to communicate with the main memory to work with the data stored there.\par
3. The most important operation which the processor carries out is memory read and memory write.\par
\ul MEMORY READ AND WRITE\par
1.\ulnone Memory Read:- a.The processor copies the required address onto the address bus.\par
b.The processor then activates the read line on the control bus.\par
c.The memory controller copies the data from the required address to the data bus and the data is transferred from the main memory to the processor.\par
2.Memory Write:- a.The processor copies the required address onto the address bus.\par
b.The processor copies the data onto the databus.\par
c.Processor activates the write line on the control bus.\par
d.Memory controller copies the data from the data from the data bus and put it into the required memory location.\par
\ul INSIDE THE PROCESSOR\f0\fs22\par
\ulnone\f1\fs28 The following components are found in a processor.\par
1.Registers:-A register is a storage location inside the processor .\par
a.Data being used.\par
b.Instruction being executed.\par
c.Address about to be acessed.\par
Registers allow the fastest access as they are on the same chip as the processor.\par
2.Control Unit:-\par
\par
\par
3.Arithmetic Logic Unit :- a.Carrying out calculations on data being processed by a progam.\par
b. The processor fetches instruction and executes them .\par
c. The time that the processor spends in the fetching an instruction and executing it is known as the fetch execute cycle.\par
4.Memory:-\par
a.Registers.\par
b.Cache memory.\par
c.Main memory.\par
d.Backing store.\par
a. Cache Memory:- i.This is the second fastest type of memory.\par
ii.It is used to store frequently used data and instruction.\par
iii. The processor looks in the cache memory before going to the main memory.\par
iv.If the data is found here then it is very quickly accessed. \par
5.Backing Store:-i. This is the slowest type of memory.\par
ii.it is needed as it keeps data even when the power is switched off.\par
iii.Backing store also have larger capacity than the faster memory.\par
eg:- HDD,CD,DVD,Flash Memory,etc.\par
\ul REPRESENTATION OF NUMBERS & CHARACTERS\ulnone  \par
In case of digital representation energy thing is represented only as numbers.\par
i.A bit (binary digit) is the most important basic unit of information of the computer.\par
ii.A byte is a group of 8 bits.\par
iii.A word in a group of bytes .\par
Words can be of any numbers of bits/ bytes.\par
eg:-16,32or 64 bits.\par
\ul\fs44 INTEGER REPRESENTATION\fs28  \par
\ulnone An integer can be represented in one of the following\par
i. Signed Integer Representation\par
a.In order to represent negative numbers computer system allocate the high order bit to indicate the sign of the value.\par
                             H T U \par
                             5 6 7           0 0 0 0 0 1 0 1\par
b. The rest of the bits contain the value of the number.\par
c.Signed numbers can be represented in 3 ways.\par
- Signed magnitude.\par
-One's compliment.\par
-Two's compliment.\par
d.So in an 8 bit word,the signed magnitude representation places the absolute value of the number in the 7 bits to the right of the sign bit.\par
eg:- +3 is represented as 00000011\par
       -3 is represented as 10000011.\par
v.Arithmetic is perfomed on signed magnitude numbers in the same way as done by humans.\par
eg:-to add 75 and 46\par
a. We will first convert them to binary and then add from right most bit working our way left.\par
75-         1   0   0   1   0   1   1\par
46-         0   1   0   1   1   1   0\par
              1   1   1   1   0   0   1\par
i. So although the signed magnitude is easy to understand,it requires complicated hardware to implement\par
ii.Another disadvantages is that it  allows 2 representation of for zero and negative zero.\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
i.In all of three system ,the left most bit is 0 for positive number.\par
\fs56 *ONE'S CO PLEMENT\fs28  \par
i.eg:-addition of 1 ( 11111110) to +2 ( 00000010)\par
                     1   1   1   1   1   1   1   0\par
                     0   0   0   0   0   0   1   0\par
                     0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   \par
                                                       1\par
                     0   0   0   0   0   0   0   1\par
*CHARACTER REPRESENTATION \par
I.ASCII:-American Standard Code For Information Interchange.\par
II.Scheme used to represent characters.\par
III.Each character is represented using 7 bit binary code.\ul\f0\fs22\par
}
 